Object detection is one of my interests in machine learning. I used this pneumonia detection challenge as an opportunity to learn object detection.


I found a pneumonia detection challenge hosted on Kaggle.com and got the desire to attempt it. One reason was because of my interest in object detection, but also because the overview tugged at my heart strings by stating a statistic that over 15% of deaths of children under the age of 5 is due to pneumonia. I knew that I probably wouldn’t be able to make a model that could win or help with that statistic, but I took this challenge on as a learning opportunity. I knew nothing about object detection at the time, so the majority of the competition time was spent doing research and reading up on object detection.

I ran into many problems in this competition. I had times where the cost function would always return 0 or NaN. After fixing that, I ran into a problem where the model would train to predict one box for a constant size, place, and prediction percentage. I don’t know why it is doing this, and it is still doing this because this project is a work in progress. I did not miss the deadline of the competition because I hit a brick wall, but because I spent much of the time learning the material as well as taking care of some medical things in my own life. I will come back to it one day, but I hit that brick wall and need to step away from it and work on other things. But I wanted to post the project regardless of its completion because I learned a lot from working on it and it was a great challenge.
